README.rst, before:

================
 Random Scripts
================

This is a collection of scattered scripts that do not need to be packaged
individually. Feel free to use them and update them, they are all licensed
under the ISC-License.

flac2mp3
========
Convert flac files to mp3s.

::

	USAGE

	    flac2mp3 list | flac2mp3 convert

	COMMANDS

	    list      List flacs in the current folder and their respective converted
	              mp3 equivalent, with cleaned up filename, both source and target
	              filename are separated by a TAB character.

	    convert   Read a list of filename pairs, the first item of each pair is a
	              flac file, the second the target mp3 file, separated by a TAB.

finddupes
=========
Find duplicate file in directories.

::

    NAME
        finddupes - find duplicates in the given directories

    SYNOPSIS
        finddupes [-m] dir ...

    DESCRIPTION
        finddupes will return the list of all the files that are identically
        named in the provided directories.  This tool is recursive and will find
        duplicates files in any level of nesting.  If the -m option is provided,
        the md5 checksum will be used for comparison instead of the filename.

mplayer-remote.py
=================
Control a movie remotely. This little script spawns a web server on the machine
with mplayer and gives a few controls to any machine connecting to this server.
You need to pass the filename of the movie you intend to play as only parameter::

    mplayer-remote.py my-movie.avi

mkprotos.py
===========
Create all the prototypes for a bunch of C functions. This is typically used in
vim where you would copy all the functions of a file in your .h file, select
them, hit ":" and type: !mkprotos.py

Another faster way to do it is to go in your header file and hit::

    :r!mkprotos.py myfile.c

This will insert directly the prototypes in your header file.

Note that all the function with @private in their docstring will not be 
included in the header.

fusic.py
========

This small script makes use of the fact that the LG Fusic phone shows up as a
serial device when plugged on a Linux box. It returns a few details about the
identity of the phone (manufacturer, model, revision and serial number) but
also the battery level and the signal strength.

litter.py
=========

Keep track of when the cat's litter was done using ``~/.litterrc`` as a JSON
list, this was written to be displayed on a small LCD display in my cat's area.

Example::

    $ litter.py
    Last changed 4 days 3 hours 44 minutes ago

    $ litter.py now
    Who (default: LastPerson): 
    Type (default: Random Brand): 
    Next change on Wednesday October 27

psdfontlist.py
==============

List all the fonts used within a Photosh*p file (PSD). You will need enough RAM
to load the entire file in memory. I know this is not pretty, it is not meant
to be, it works for me (TM).

If a font is used multiple times, it will only be listed once. The only two
working options are::

    -h    help/usage
    -d    show parsing debug

And this is what you should expect out if it::

    $ psdfontlist myfile.pdf
    OneFont
    AnotherOne
    SomeRandomOtherFont
   
The default for decoding the font names is big endian UTF-16. If you have a
"BOM error":

 - open the ``codecs`` documentation,
 - add the new BOM (byte order mark) to match the data in your file,
 - send your patch
 - ???
 - profit

geurp.py
========

Silly module to parse/alter files, grep style.

The goal of this module is to have a simple interface to do grep-style and
in-place alterations to files allowing each line to be either completely
removed or replaced by multiple lines.

Use example::

    # For every .txt file in recipes/, replace apple by lemon.
    import geurp

    def derper(line):
        return [ line.replace("apple", "lemon") ]

    geurp.derp("recipes/*.txt", derper)

playrar.sh
==========

This script is used to play a movie out of a series of RAR files. This is
particularily useful when downloading a movie in the right order since it
allows you to start watching the movie almost as soon as you start your
download.

Usage example::

    playrar random_movie.part01.rar

tackups.py
==========
Simplistic backup system wrapping gnupg, gzip, cpio, find and Amazon S3.

The whole point of this tool is to simplify the storage format and avoid the
need for extra tools to restore from backups. All you need to restore an
archive is::

    gpg -d $file | gzip | cpio -id

"Incremental" backups are handled manually, in most cases, this can be done by
simply specifying partial backups based on find rules, for example, backing up
a folder of Maildir folders:

- hourly saving only the last 24H of inbox/ and sent/
- daily saving everything except archived folders
- weekly saving everything.

This script assumes the AWS keys are stored in the configuration file, the
reason for this choice is simple, you should setup a user for each machine (or
class of machine) and only give "PutObject" rights to this user, the global
AWS_ variables are typically user specific, not task specific.

Here is an example configuration file (YAML)::

    aws_access_key_id:      "AK.................."
    aws_secret_access_key:  "........................................"

    gpg_recipient:          "6453194A"

    target_bucket_name:     "backups.hostname.tamentis.com"

    periods:
        hourly:
            include:
                - "mail/inbox"
                - "mail/sent"
                - "mail/work/inbox"
                - "mail/work/sent"
            include_options:
                ctime: 1

        daily:
            include:
                - "projects"
                - "mail"
            exclude:
                - "^mail/archives"

        weekly:
            include:
                - "projects"
                - "mail"

Here is an example of the usage in a ``crontab(5)``::

    @hourly tackups.py /etc/tackups.conf hourly
    @daily tackups.py /etc/tackups.conf daily
    @weekly tackups.py /etc/tackups.conf weekly

Commit message:

Add pycdate to read the modification timestamp of a pyc file.

README.rst, after:

================
 Random Scripts
================

This is a collection of scattered scripts that do not need to be packaged
individually. Feel free to use them and update them, they are all licensed
under the ISC-License.

pycdate
=======
::

    NAME
        pycdate - get the modification date of a .pyc file.

    SYNOPSIS
        pycdate pycfile

    DESCRIPTION
        pycdate will read the header of the pyc file and convert the timestamp
        into a ISO 8601 string.  For example:

            $ pycdate model/user.pyc
            2010-12-18T12:42:00


flac2mp3
========
Convert flac files to mp3s.

::

	USAGE

	    flac2mp3 list | flac2mp3 convert

	COMMANDS

	    list      List flacs in the current folder and their respective converted
	              mp3 equivalent, with cleaned up filename, both source and target
	              filename are separated by a TAB character.

	    convert   Read a list of filename pairs, the first item of each pair is a
	              flac file, the second the target mp3 file, separated by a TAB.

finddupes
=========
Find duplicate file in directories.

::

    NAME
        finddupes - find duplicates in the given directories

    SYNOPSIS
        finddupes [-m] dir ...

    DESCRIPTION
        finddupes will return the list of all the files that are identically
        named in the provided directories.  This tool is recursive and will find
        duplicates files in any level of nesting.  If the -m option is provided,
        the md5 checksum will be used for comparison instead of the filename.

mplayer-remote.py
=================
Control a movie remotely. This little script spawns a web server on the machine
with mplayer and gives a few controls to any machine connecting to this server.
You need to pass the filename of the movie you intend to play as only parameter::

    mplayer-remote.py my-movie.avi

mkprotos.py
===========
Create all the prototypes for a bunch of C functions. This is typically used in
vim where you would copy all the functions of a file in your .h file, select
them, hit ":" and type: !mkprotos.py

Another faster way to do it is to go in your header file and hit::

    :r!mkprotos.py myfile.c

This will insert directly the prototypes in your header file.

Note that all the function with @private in their docstring will not be 
included in the header.

fusic.py
========

This small script makes use of the fact that the LG Fusic phone shows up as a
serial device when plugged on a Linux box. It returns a few details about the
identity of the phone (manufacturer, model, revision and serial number) but
also the battery level and the signal strength.

litter.py
=========

Keep track of when the cat's litter was done using ``~/.litterrc`` as a JSON
list, this was written to be displayed on a small LCD display in my cat's area.

Example::

    $ litter.py
    Last changed 4 days 3 hours 44 minutes ago

    $ litter.py now
    Who (default: LastPerson): 
    Type (default: Random Brand): 
    Next change on Wednesday October 27

psdfontlist.py
==============

List all the fonts used within a Photosh*p file (PSD). You will need enough RAM
to load the entire file in memory. I know this is not pretty, it is not meant
to be, it works for me (TM).

If a font is used multiple times, it will only be listed once. The only two
working options are::

    -h    help/usage
    -d    show parsing debug

And this is what you should expect out if it::

    $ psdfontlist myfile.pdf
    OneFont
    AnotherOne
    SomeRandomOtherFont
   
The default for decoding the font names is big endian UTF-16. If you have a
"BOM error":

 - open the ``codecs`` documentation,
 - add the new BOM (byte order mark) to match the data in your file,
 - send your patch
 - ???
 - profit

geurp.py
========

Silly module to parse/alter files, grep style.

The goal of this module is to have a simple interface to do grep-style and
in-place alterations to files allowing each line to be either completely
removed or replaced by multiple lines.

Use example::

    # For every .txt file in recipes/, replace apple by lemon.
    import geurp

    def derper(line):
        return [ line.replace("apple", "lemon") ]

    geurp.derp("recipes/*.txt", derper)

playrar.sh
==========

This script is used to play a movie out of a series of RAR files. This is
particularily useful when downloading a movie in the right order since it
allows you to start watching the movie almost as soon as you start your
download.

Usage example::

    playrar random_movie.part01.rar

tackups.py
==========
Simplistic backup system wrapping gnupg, gzip, cpio, find and Amazon S3.

The whole point of this tool is to simplify the storage format and avoid the
need for extra tools to restore from backups. All you need to restore an
archive is::

    gpg -d $file | gzip | cpio -id

"Incremental" backups are handled manually, in most cases, this can be done by
simply specifying partial backups based on find rules, for example, backing up
a folder of Maildir folders:

- hourly saving only the last 24H of inbox/ and sent/
- daily saving everything except archived folders
- weekly saving everything.

This script assumes the AWS keys are stored in the configuration file, the
reason for this choice is simple, you should setup a user for each machine (or
class of machine) and only give "PutObject" rights to this user, the global
AWS_ variables are typically user specific, not task specific.

Here is an example configuration file (YAML)::

    aws_access_key_id:      "AK.................."
    aws_secret_access_key:  "........................................"

    gpg_recipient:          "6453194A"

    target_bucket_name:     "backups.hostname.tamentis.com"

    periods:
        hourly:
            include:
                - "mail/inbox"
                - "mail/sent"
                - "mail/work/inbox"
                - "mail/work/sent"
            include_options:
                ctime: 1

        daily:
            include:
                - "projects"
                - "mail"
            exclude:
                - "^mail/archives"

        weekly:
            include:
                - "projects"
                - "mail"

Here is an example of the usage in a ``crontab(5)``::

    @hourly tackups.py /etc/tackups.conf hourly
    @daily tackups.py /etc/tackups.conf daily
    @weekly tackups.py /etc/tackups.conf weekly
